# Big-Brother-Naija-Tweets-Analysis
Using Sentiment Analysis and Data Visualization to explore BBNaija2020. I recently worked on a side project with the premises that if people on Twitter actually vote based on how they talk about the housemates in their tweets. What happens if people vote as they tweet? Of course, they don’t but what if they do? What if there is an AI that reads your tweet on twitter and could categorize it into Positive, negative and neutral and use this as a basis for who gets evicted and who doesn’t? These are the questions that myself and @prommy15 tried to solve on this project. Disclaimer: This project is just a project. It is not sponsored by anyone and neither is it directed towards anymore. This is simply a sentiment analysis and visualization of tweets, not a deep analysis and might not in any way affect the ACTUAL votes. Using the housemates’ names as hashtags, 1000 tweets were collected for each housemates from Sunday to Thursday. We broke it into 3 categories based on how people directed the tweets; Positive, Negative and Neutral. Positive tweets: Tweets that says something positive about an housemate. Negative tweets: Tweets that says something negative about a housemate. Neutral: Tweets are neither positive nor negative. Based on the premise that people with neutral comments about an housemate are indecisive of where they stand concerning a housemate. People with positive comments are more likely to vote for such housemate. People with negative comments are less likely to vote for such housemate We further simplified the data as shown below. By neglecting tweets that are neutral because they are less likely to vote for any housemate, Positive comments as a counter for those that are likely to vote for a housemate and Negative for those that are likely not to vote for a housemate. By using the relationship Possible eviction = positive-negative to get the value for least and most likely to be evicted in the BBnaija According to the tweets from Sunday to Thursday, the results is as shown below with Praise leading the chart and Dora among the last 4. Please note that this visualization is only valid if tweets are considered votes but graciously they are not, you have to actually vote online. Based on this, Neo is most likely to be among the bottom 4 if nothing changes between now and Saturday. This is simply a visualization of data scrapped off Twitter for Educational purposes, it is no way directed at anyone nor is it an indication of how well you have voted. This is just a personal project based on what is going on right now and IT IS NOT SPONSORED BY ANYBODY NOR ANY BOData Scrapped, analyzed and visualized: by me(https://mobile.twitter.com/bamidezy/status/1300056431660593154?s=19) Information designer: https://mobile.twitter.com/Prommy15
